---
layout: post
title:  "Deliverable 1.1 published"
date:   2015-07-31
categories: deliverable
image: deliverable.png
---
Deliverable 1.1 with the title 'Survey of modelling public spending data & Knowledge elicitation report' has been published and is available to download [here (910KB)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/deliverables/D1.1.pdf). 

The Goals of this deliverable were to provide an overview of the existing models, approaches and initiatives aimed at publishing budgetary data and to report on knowledge elicitation with domain experts and prospective users. The deliverable is structured into two respective sections: survey of modelling public spending data and knowledge elicitation report. Download the deliverable 

**Executive Summary:**
This deliverable serves two purposes. One is to survey the state of the art in data modelling of budget and spending data on the web and in practice. This will inspire the the following OpenBudget.eu data model definition. The second purpose is to deliver a report on knowledge elicitation performed with domain experts in order to gain additional insight into the domain of budget and spending data.
In the survey part of this deliverable, we identified, analysed, described and compared 9 budget data models, 8 spending data models and one combined data model. The data models were used in several datasets in various data formats such as CSV, XML, JSON and RDF. In addition to the data models, we identified legal requirements on budget and spending data in the context of OpenBudgets.eu use cases. There are the budget of the European Union, the structural funds of the European Union and the budget data of regions and municipalities in Spain.
In the second part of this deliverable, we describe the process and results of the knowledge elicitation with domain experts. We interviewed 9 domain experts in 7 interviews, 5 experts were outsiders to the OpenBudgets.eu project. They included 2 public officials, 2 finance statisticians, a policy officer, a journalist and a civil activist. The results revealed potential communication challenges as well as concrete requirements on the OpenBudgets.eu platform and its data model.

